# Reading 14: Classification I: Introduction, Generative Classification

*For the class on Monday, March 25th*

## Reading assignments

1. Read the following sections of {cite}`Zeljko`:

   - Chap. 9 "Classification"
     - *(Optional)* Sec. 9.1 "Data Sets Used in This Chapter
     - Sec. 9.2 "Assigning Categories: Classification"
       - Sec. 9.2.1 "Classification Loss"
     - Sec. 9.3 "Generative Classification"
       - Sec. 9.3.1 "General Concepts of Generative Classification"
       - Sec. 9.3.2 "Naive Bayes"
       - *(Optional)* Sec. 9.3.3–9.3.5
     - Sec. 9.4 "K-Nearest-Neighbor Classifier"


## Questions

:::{hint}
Submit your answer on Canvas. Due at noon, Monday, March 25th.
:::

1. List anything from your reading that confuses you. Explain why they confuse you.
   **You are strongly encouraged to think about what questions you have about the reading**,
   but if you really have no questions at all,
   please briefly summarize what you have learned from this reading assignment.

2. Use your own words to explain the difference between a "generative" classification method and a "discriminative" classification method.

3. What quantity does a classification method aim to minimize?


## Discussion Preview

:::{note}
We will discuss the following questions in class. They are included here so that you have a chance to think about them before class.
You need _not_ submit your answers as part of this assignment.
:::

1. We will discuss the overall mathematical framework of classification methods and the relationship between the generative methods and density estimation.

2. We will compare a few [different classification methods](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/classification/plot_classifier_comparison.html)
   (and will focus on generative methods in this class).
